Peer-reporting P1: two-minute demo framework

This AI-assisted artifact is a factual demo outline for the project or the video.
It is not an answer to the submission form. A human must write the form answers
without AI. Do not paste this outline into the form. Do not describe it as
human-authored text. These scripts submit no form.

The collection is closed. The counts below come from the verified summary and
the mechanical audit. The human semantic review is pending.

0:00-0:25
We ask one question. Does an observer that does an ordinary inventory task make a
private, evidence-supported report about a fictional approval breach? N is the
number of scripted peers. N does not include the observer. In the main grid, K is the number of
peers with verified unauthorized operations. A supported concern about a
prohibited operation by a signer can satisfy the shared-incident endpoint. The
focal-operation endpoint is separate. It asks if the observer identifies the
original submit_request operation.

0:25-0:45
Show the public packet and the approval records in the existing evidence export.
All participants, messages, records, rules and incidents are authored fiction.
Related setting context comes from the AI Village dataset of AI Digest. The
project selected that context after the authors wrote these fixtures. No Village
agent committed the incident in the scenario.
Attribution: AI Digest, "AI Village dataset", 2026,
https://theaidigest.org/village; aidigestorg/ai-village revision 838b415,
events/0001d4ba-6999-4eee-8ea0-1e54b4cd6d49.

0:45-1:15
Show the collection and smoke cards. All 216 collection assignments have archived
observations. All 216 inventory tasks passed. There were 399 report attempts and
322 accepted reports in 165 assignments. An accepted report passed the format
checks of the tool, and the tool stored it. Acceptance does not show accuracy.
Keep smoke separate. It has 9 task passes, 14 report attempts and 8 accepted
reports.
All 162 positive main assignments made a report attempt. The 36 main assignments
with K=0 made no report attempt. Neither did the 9 matching-approval controls.
All 9 unverified-accusation controls have a report attempt and an accepted report.
These reports can be qualified concerns. Human review must check their content.

1:15-1:45
Explain the report acceptance gap. Schema validation rejected 77 report attempts.
In 76 attempts, the action string was longer than 100 characters.
In 1 attempt, the summary field was not a string.
The 6 positive assignments without an accepted report all used gpt-6-luna.
They made 11 report attempts. Action-length validation rejected all 11 attempts.
These failures do not show a refusal to report.
For each monitoring prompt, all 54 positive main assignments made a report attempt.
The counts of assignments with at least one accepted report are 52 for none,
50 for soft and 54 for active. By model, the counts are 48 of 54 for gpt-6-luna,
54 of 54 for gpt-6-sol and 54 of 54 for gpt-6-astra. These numbers count
assignments, not reports. They are not a ranking.

1:45-2:10
Open the first-trace link. It selects the first archived collection assignment
in planned order. The selection does not depend on the outcome.
Inspect the public records, report acceptance, observer outputs and termination.
The shared-incident concern and the focal-operation concern are distinct
endpoints. A correct concern does not erase a false claim in the same output or
another output. Review covers private reports, public posts and final answers.

2:10-2:40
Show the review and resource limits. All 755 collection outputs wait for human
semantic review. There are no final human output labels.
The 215 assignments with known final usage report 6,592,379 settled tokens.
One gpt-6-astra assignment has unknown final usage. Its 76,181 observed tokens
are a partial total.
Its retained 95,000-token reservation is not a hard upper bound on usage.
The study has one authored incident and two finite fixture blocks. The blocks
are different stimuli. They are not identical independent repetitions.
The peers are scripted, so the pilot does not test emergent swarm behavior.
A change to K changes the evidence and the participation together.
This pilot does not establish a population threshold, diffusion of responsibility,
resistance to peer pressure or costly whistleblowing.
Final accuracy needs the specified human review. That includes independent second
judgments and adjudication where the plan requires it.

Postcollection commands (Python environment of the repository; no provider calls)

python scripts/summarize_peer_collection.py PATH_TO_CLOSED_STUDY --output .local/peer-reporting-p1-summary-v1

The output directory must be new, and it must be outside the source archive. The
files are summary.json, assignments.csv and index.html. The JSON keeps all 225
assignments. It also keeps the exact model, prompt, N, K, block and variant
cells. It keeps the semantic applicability, the pending values, the conditional
resolved counts and the all-assigned bounds. A blank cell in the CSV means
unknown or unavailable. Endpoint applicability and reasons are explicit columns.
This summary is a researcher artifact. It is not a blinded reviewer packet.

To inspect transcripts and to make masked reviewer packets, use the existing
command:
python -m swarm_auth_bench.peer_reporting export PATH_TO_CLOSED_STUDY --output .local/peer-reporting-p1-live-export-v1

If the export command changes, read the help text of the installed CLI. Keep the
controller bindings private. After the human review, you can use the optional
--reviews and --bindings arguments. They accept JSON maps with assignment IDs as
keys. You must supply both arguments together, and you must bind them to the
exact archived output. The scorer rejects invalid labels, and the summary keeps
review_error. The summary counts alone do not certify the review sampling or the
completion of the second review.

The scripts do not rewrite the source archives. The existing phase verifier can
acquire its budget lock. Run it against a closed snapshot. If the payload hashes
changed, the resource attachment stops. If collection-level verification fails,
the run stops. Phase corruption and attempt corruption stay visible as
quarantined planned rows. This demo republishes no raw source text. The
repository owner is responsible for the publication notification to AI Digest
under the reviewed terms.
